 

 

VARNEY THE VAMPIRE
; 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
OR 


THE FEAST OF BLOOD 


Thomas Preskett Prest 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Edited & Published by 

 PDFBooksWorld


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
Publisher Notes 

This eBook is designed, edited and published by PDFBooksWorld and 
can be accessed & downloaded for personal reading by registered 
members of PDFBooksWorld at http://www.pdfbooksworld.com. Though 
the text, illustrations and images used in this book are out of copyright, 
this unique PDF formatted edition is copyrighted. Readers of this book 
can share and link to pages of our website through blogs and social 
networks, however the PDF files downloaded from our website shall not 
be stored or transmitted in any form for commercial purpose. 

Disclaimer: This edition is an electronic version of a public domain book, which was originally written many decades ago. Hence 
contents found in this eBook may not be relevant to the contemporary scenarios. This book shall be read for informative and 
educational purpose only. This eBook is provided ｀AS-IS¨ with no other warranties of any kind, express or implied, including but 
not limited to warranties of merchantability or fitness for any purpose. 

 

Original Publication Notes 

LONDON: 

PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY E. LLOYD, 12, SALISBURY-SQUARE, FLEET-
STREET. 

 

 

 

 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
Table of Contents 

 
PREFACE .................................................................................................................... 3 
THE FEAST OF BLOOD ............................................................................................. 4 
CHAPTER I. ................................................................................................................ 5 
MIDNIGHT.！THE HAIL-STORM.！THE DREADFUL VISITOR.！THE 
VAMPYRE. ............................................................................................................... 5 
CHAPTER II. ............................................................................................................. 10 
THE ALARM.！THE PISTOL SHOT.！THE PURSUIT AND ITS 
CONSEQUENCES. ................................................................................................ 10 
CHAPTER III. ........................................................................................................... 17 
THE DISAPPEARANCE OF THE BODY.！FLORA'S RECOVERY AND 
MADNESS.！THE OFFER OF ASSISTANCE FROM SIR FRANCIS VARNEY. .. 17 


 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
PREFACE 

 

The unprecedented success of the romance of "Varney the Vampyre," leaves the 
Author but little to say further, than that he accepts that success and its results as 
gratefully as it is possible for any one to do popular favours. 

A belief in the existence of Vampyres first took its rise in Norway and Sweden, from 
whence it rapidly spread to more southern regions, taking a firm hold of the 
imaginations of the more credulous portion of mankind. 

The following romance is collected from seemingly the most authentic sources, and 
the Author must leave the question of credibility entirely to his readers, not even 
thinking that he is peculiarly called upon to express his own opinion upon the 
subject. 

Nothing has been omitted in the life of the unhappy Varney, which could tend to 
throw a light upon his most extraordinary career, and the fact of his death just as it is 
here related, made a great noise at the time through Europe and is to be found in the 
public prints for the year 1713. 

With these few observations, the Author and Publisher, are well content to leave the 
work in the hands of a public, which has stamped it with an approbation far 
exceeding their most sanguine expectations, and which is calculated to act as the 
strongest possible incentive to the production of other works, which in a like, or 
perchance a still further degree may be deserving of public patronage and support. 

To the whole of the Metropolitan Press for their laudatory notices, the Author is 
peculiarly obliged. 

London Sep. 1847 

 



Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
THE FEAST OF BLOOD 

A Romance 

 ---


 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
CHAPTER I. 

！！"How graves give up their dead. 

And how the night air hideous grows 

With shrieks!" 

MIDNIGHT.！THE HAIL-STORM.！THE DREADFUL 
VISITOR.！THE VAMPYRE. 

 

The solemn tones of an old cathedral clock have announced midnight！the air is 
thick and heavy！a strange, death like stillness pervades all nature. Like the ominous 
calm which precedes some more than usually terrific outbreak of the elements, they 
seem to have paused even in their ordinary fluctuations, to gather a terrific strength 
for the great effort. A faint peal of thunder now comes from far off. Like a signal gun 
for the battle of the winds to begin, it appeared to awaken them from their lethargy, 
and one awful, warring hurricane swept over a whole city, producing more 
devastation in the four or five minutes it lasted, than would a half century of ordinary 
phenomena. 

It was as if some giant had blown upon some toy town, and scattered many of the 
buildings before the hot blast of his terrific breath; for as suddenly as that blast of 
wind had come did it cease, and all was as still and calm as before. 

Sleepers awakened, and thought that what they had heard must be the confused 
chimera of a dream. They trembled and turned to sleep again. 

All is still！still as the very grave. Not a sound breaks the magic of repose. What is 
that！a strange, pattering noise, as of a million of fairy feet? It is hail！yes, a hail-
storm has burst over the city. Leaves are dashed from the trees, mingled with small 
boughs; windows that lie most opposed to the direct fury of the pelting particles of 
ice are broken, and the rapt repose that before was so remarkable in its intensity, is 
exchanged for a noise which, in its accumulation, drowns every cry of surprise or 
consternation which here and there arose from persons who found their houses 
invaded by the storm. 

Now and then, too, there would come a sudden gust of wind that in its strength, as it 
blew laterally, would, for a moment, hold millions of the hailstones suspended in mid 
air, but it was only to dash them with redoubled force in some new direction, where 
more mischief was to be done. 

Oh, how the storm raged! Hail！rain！wind. It was, in very truth, an awful night. 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png 
---


There is an antique chamber in an ancient house. Curious and quaint carvings adorn 
the walls, and the large chimney-piece is a curiosity of itself. The ceiling is low, and a 
large bay window, from roof to floor, looks to the west. The window is latticed, and 
filled with curiously painted glass and rich stained pieces, which send in a strange, 
yet beautiful light, when sun or moon shines into the apartment. There is but one 
portrait in that room, although the walls seem panelled for the express purpose of 
containing a series of pictures. That portrait is of a young man, with a pale face, a 
stately brow, and a strange expression about the eyes, which no one cared to look on 
twice. 

There is a stately bed in that chamber, of carved walnut-wood is it made, rich in 
design and elaborate in execution; one of those works of art which owe their 
existence to the Elizabethan era. It is hung with heavy silken and damask furnishing; 
nodding feathers are at its corners！covered with dust are they, and they lend a 
funereal aspect to the room. The floor is of polished oak. 

God! how the hail dashes on the old bay window! Like an occasional discharge of 
mimic musketry, it comes clashing, beating, and cracking upon the small panes; but 
they resist it！their small size saves them; the wind, the hail, the rain, expend their 
fury in vain. 

The bed in that old chamber is occupied. A creature formed in all fashions of 
loveliness lies in a half sleep upon that ancient couch！a girl young and beautiful as a 
spring morning. Her long hair has escaped from its confinement and streams over 
the blackened coverings of the bedstead; she has been restless in her sleep, for the 
clothing of the bed is in much confusion. One arm is over her head, the other hangs 
nearly off the side of the bed near to which she lies. A neck and bosom that would 
have formed a study for the rarest sculptor that ever Providence gave genius to, were 
half disclosed. She moaned slightly in her sleep, and once or twice the lips moved as 
if in prayer！at least one might judge so, for the name of Him who suffered for all 
came once faintly from them. 

She has endured much fatigue, and the storm does not awaken her; but it can disturb 
the slumbers it does not possess the power to destroy entirely. The turmoil of the 
elements wakes the senses, although it cannot entirely break the repose they have 
lapsed into. 

Oh, what a world of witchery was in that mouth, slightly parted, and exhibiting 
within the pearly teeth that glistened even in the faint light that came from that bay 
window. How sweetly the long silken eyelashes lay upon the cheek. Now she moves, 
and one shoulder is entirely visible！whiter, fairer than the spotless clothing of the 
bed on which she lies, is the smooth skin of that fair creature, just budding into 
womanhood, and in that transition state which presents to us all the charms of the 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
girl！almost of the child, with the more matured beauty and gentleness of advancing 
years. 

Was that lightning? Yes！an awful, vivid, terrifying flash！then a roaring peal of 
thunder, as if a thousand mountains were rolling one over the other in the blue vault 
of Heaven! Who sleeps now in that ancient city? Not one living soul. The dread 
trumpet of eternity could not more effectually have awakened any one. 

The hail continues. The wind continues. The uproar of the elements seems at its 
height. Now she awakens！that beautiful girl on the antique bed; she opens those 
eyes of celestial blue, and a faint cry of alarm bursts from her lips. At least it is a cry 
which, amid the noise and turmoil without, sounds but faint and weak. She sits upon 
the bed and presses her hands upon her eyes. Heavens! what a wild torrent of wind, 
and rain, and hail! The thunder likewise seems intent upon awakening sufficient 
echoes to last until the next flash of forked lightning should again produce the wild 
concussion of the air. She murmurs a prayer！a prayer for those she loves best; the 
names of those dear to her gentle heart come from her lips; she weeps and prays; she 
thinks then of what devastation the storm must surely produce, and to the great God 
of Heaven she prays for all living things. Another flash！a wild, blue, bewildering 
flash of lightning streams across that bay window, for an instant bringing out every 
colour in it with terrible distinctness. A shriek bursts from the lips of the young girl, 
and then, with eyes fixed upon that window, which, in another moment, is all 
darkness, and with such an expression of terror upon her face as it had never before 
known, she trembled, and the perspiration of intense fear stood upon her brow. 

"What！what was it?" she gasped; "real, or a delusion? Oh, God, what was it? A figure 
tall and gaunt, endeavouring from the outside to unclasp the window. I saw it. That 
flash of lightning revealed it to me. It stood the whole length of the window." 

There was a lull of the wind. The hail was not falling so thickly！moreover, it now fell, 
what there was of it, straight, and yet a strange clattering sound came upon the glass 
of that long window. It could not be a delusion！she is awake, and she hears it. What 
can produce it? Another flash of lightning！another shriek！there could be now no 
delusion. 

A tall figure is standing on the ledge immediately outside the long window. It is its 
finger-nails upon the glass that produces the sound so like the hail, now that the hail 
has ceased. Intense fear paralysed the limbs of that beautiful girl. That one shriek is 
all she can utter！with hands clasped, a face of marble, a heart beating so wildly in 
her bosom, that each moment it seems as if it would break its confines, eyes 
distended and fixed upon the window, she waits, froze with horror. The pattering and 
clattering of the nails continue. No word is spoken, and now she fancies she can trace 
the darker form of that figure against the window, and she can see the long arms 
moving to and fro, feeling for some mode of entrance. What strange light is that 
which now gradually creeps up into the air? red and terrible！brighter and brighter it 
grows. The lightning has set fire to a mill, and the reflection of the rapidly consuming 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
building falls upon that long window. There can be no mistake. The figure is there, 
still feeling for an entrance, and clattering against the glass with its long nails, that 
appear as if the growth of many years had been untouched. She tries to scream again 
but a choking sensation comes over her, and she cannot. It is too dreadful！she tries 
to move！each limb seems weighed down by tons of lead！she can but in a hoarse 
faint whisper cry,！ 

"Help！help！help！help!" 

And that one word she repeats like a person in a dream. The red glare of the fire 
continues. It throws up the tall gaunt figure in hideous relief against the long 
window. It shows, too, upon the one portrait that is in the chamber, and that portrait 
appears to fix its eyes upon the attempting intruder, while the flickering light from 
the fire makes it look fearfully lifelike. A small pane of glass is broken, and the form 
from without introduces a long gaunt hand, which seems utterly destitute of flesh. 
The fastening is removed, and one-half of the window, which opens like folding 
doors, is swung wide open upon its hinges. 

And yet now she could not scream！she could not move. "Help!！help!！help!" was 
all she could say. But, oh, that look of terror that sat upon her face, it was dreadful！a 
look to haunt the memory for a lifetime！a look to obtrude itself upon the happiest 
moments, and turn them to bitterness. 

The figure turns half round, and the light falls upon the face. It is perfectly white！
perfectly bloodless. The eyes look like polished tin; the lips are drawn back, and the 
principal feature next to those dreadful eyes is the teeth！the fearful looking teeth！
projecting like those of some wild animal, hideously, glaringly white, and fang-like. It 
approaches the bed with a strange, gliding movement. It clashes together the long 
nails that literally appear to hang from the finger ends. No sound comes from its lips. 
Is she going mad！that young and beautiful girl exposed to so much terror? she has 
drawn up all her limbs; she cannot even now say help. The power of articulation is 
gone, but the power of movement has returned to her; she can draw herself slowly 
along to the other side of the bed from that towards which the hideous appearance is 
coming. 

But her eyes are fascinated. The glance of a serpent could not have produced a 
greater effect upon her than did the fixed gaze of those awful, metallic-looking eyes 
that were bent on her face. Crouching down so that the gigantic height was lost, and 
the horrible, protruding, white face was the most prominent object, came on the 
figure. What was it?！what did it want there?！what made it look so hideous！so 
unlike an inhabitant of the earth, and yet to be on it? 

Now she has got to the verge of the bed, and the figure pauses. It seemed as if when it 
paused she lost the power to proceed. The clothing of the bed was now clutched in 
her hands with unconscious power. She drew her breath short and thick. Her bosom 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
heaves, and her limbs tremble, yet she cannot withdraw her eyes from that marble-
looking face. He holds her with his glittering eye. 

The storm has ceased！all is still. The winds are hushed; the church clock proclaims 
the hour of one: a hissing sound comes from the throat of the hideous being, and he 
raises his long, gaunt arms！the lips move. He advances. The girl places one small 
foot from the bed on to the floor. She is unconsciously dragging the clothing with her. 
The door of the room is in that direction！can she reach it? Has she power to walk?！
can she withdraw her eyes from the face of the intruder, and so break the hideous 
charm? God of Heaven! is it real, or some dream so like reality as to nearly overturn 
the judgment for ever? 

The figure has paused again, and half on the bed and half out of it that young girl lies 
trembling. Her long hair streams across the entire width of the bed. As she has slowly 
moved along she has left it streaming across the pillows. The pause lasted about a 
minute！oh, what an age of agony. That minute was, indeed, enough for madness to 
do its full work in. 

With a sudden rush that could not be foreseen！with a strange howling cry that was 
enough to awaken terror in every breast, the figure seized the long tresses of her hair, 
and twining them round his bony hands he held her to the bed. Then she screamed！
Heaven granted her then power to scream. Shriek followed shriek in rapid 
succession. The bed-clothes fell in a heap by the side of the bed！she was dragged by 
her long silken hair completely on to it again. Her beautifully rounded limbs quivered 
with the agony of her soul. The glassy, horrible eyes of the figure ran over that angelic 
form with a hideous satisfaction！horrible profanation. He drags her head to the 
bed's edge. He forces it back by the long hair still entwined in his grasp. With a 
plunge he seizes her neck in his fang-like teeth！a gush of blood, and a hideous 
sucking noise follows. The girl has swooned, and the vampyre is at his hideous 
repast! 

 ---



Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
004.png
CHAPTER II. 

THE ALARM.！THE PISTOL SHOT.！THE PURSUIT 
AND ITS CONSEQUENCES. 

 

 

Lights flashed about the building, and various room doors opened; voices called one 
to the other. There was an universal stir and commotion among the inhabitants. 

"Did you hear a scream, Harry?" asked a young man, half-dressed, as he walked into 
the chamber of another about his own age. 

"I did！where was it?" 

"God knows. I dressed myself directly." 

"All is still now." 

"Yes; but unless I was dreaming there was a scream." 

"We could not both dream there was. Where did you think it came from?" 

"It burst so suddenly upon my ears that I cannot say." 

There was a tap now at the door of the room where these young men were, and a 
female voice said,！ 

"For God's sake, get up!" 

"We are up," said both the young men, appearing. 

"Did you hear anything?" 

"Yes, a scream." 

"Oh, search the house！search the house; where did it come from！can you tell?" 

"Indeed we cannot, mother." 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
004.png
Another person now joined the party. He was a man of middle age, and, as he came 
up to them, he said,！ 

"Good God! what is the matter?" 

Scarcely had the words passed his lips, than such a rapid succession of shrieks came 
upon their ears, that they felt absolutely stunned by them. The elderly lady, whom 
one of the young men had called mother, fainted, and would have fallen to the floor 
of the corridor in which they all stood, had she not been promptly supported by the 
last comer, who himself staggered, as those piercing cries came upon the night air. 
He, however, was the first to recover, for the young men seemed paralysed. 

"Henry," he cried, "for God's sake support your mother. Can you doubt that these 
cries come from Flora's room?" 

The young man mechanically supported his mother, and then the man who had just 
spoken darted back to his own bed-room, from whence he returned in a moment 
with a pair of pistols, and shouting,！ 

"Follow me, who can!" he bounded across the corridor in the direction of the antique 
apartment, from whence the cries proceeded, but which were now hushed. 

That house was built for strength, and the doors were all of oak, and of considerable 
thickness. Unhappily, they had fastenings within, so that when the man reached the 
chamber of her who so much required help, he was helpless, for the door was fast. 

"Flora! Flora!" he cried; "Flora, speak!" 

All was still. 

"Good God!" he added; "we must force the door." 

"I hear a strange noise within," said the young man, who trembled violently. 

"And so do I. What does it sound like?" 

"I scarcely know; but it nearest resembles some animal eating, or sucking some 
liquid." 

"What on earth can it be? Have you no weapon that will force the door? I shall go 
mad if I am kept here." 

"I have," said the young man. "Wait here a moment." 

He ran down the staircase, and presently returned with a small, but powerful, iron 
crow-bar. 

"This will do," he said. 

"It will, it will.！Give it to me." 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
004.png
"Has she not spoken?" 

"Not a word. My mind misgives me that something very dreadful must have 
happened to her." 

"And that odd noise!" 

"Still goes on. Somehow, it curdles the very blood in my veins to hear it." 

The man took the crow-bar, and with some difficulty succeeded in introducing it 
between the door and the side of the wall！still it required great strength to move it, 
but it did move, with a harsh, crackling sound. 

"Push it!" cried he who was using the bar, "push the door at the same time." 

The younger man did so. For a few moments the massive door resisted. Then, 
suddenly, something gave way with a loud snap！it was a part of the lock,！and the 
door at once swung wide open. 

How true it is that we measure time by the events which happen within a given space 
of it, rather than by its actual duration. 

To those who were engaged in forcing open the door of the antique chamber, where 
slept the young girl whom they named Flora, each moment was swelled into an hour 
of agony; but, in reality, from the first moment of the alarm to that when the loud 
cracking noise heralded the destruction of the fastenings of the door, there had 
elapsed but very few minutes indeed. 

"It opens！it opens," cried the young man. 

"Another moment," said the stranger, as he still plied the crowbar！"another 
moment, and we shall have free ingress to the chamber. Be patient." 

This stranger's name was Marchdale; and even as he spoke, he succeeded in throwing 
the massive door wide open, and clearing the passage to the chamber. 

To rush in with a light in his hand was the work of a moment to the young man 
named Henry; but the very rapid progress he made into the apartment prevented 
him from observing accurately what it contained, for the wind that came in from the 
open window caught the flame of the candle, and although it did not actually 
extinguish it, it blew it so much on one side, that it was comparatively useless as a 
light. 

"Flora！Flora!" he cried. 

Then with a sudden bound something dashed from off the bed. The concussion 
against him was so sudden and so utterly unexpected, as well as so tremendously 
violent, that he was thrown down, and, in his fall, the light was fairly extinguished. 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
004.png
All was darkness, save a dull, reddish kind of light that now and then, from the nearly 
consumed mill in the immediate vicinity, came into the room. But by that light, dim, 
uncertain, and flickering as it was, some one was seen to make for the window. 

Henry, although nearly stunned by his fall, saw a figure, gigantic in height, which 
nearly reached from the floor to the ceiling. The other young man, George, saw it, 
and Mr. Marchdale likewise saw it, as did the lady who had spoken to the two young 
men in the corridor when first the screams of the young girl awakened alarm in the 
breasts of all the inhabitants of that house. 

The figure was about to pass out at the window which led to a kind of balcony, from 
whence there was an easy descent to a garden. 

Before it passed out they each and all caught a glance of the side-face, and they saw 
that the lower part of it and the lips were dabbled in blood. They saw, too, one of 
those fearful-looking, shining, metallic eyes which presented so terrible an 
appearance of unearthly ferocity. 

No wonder that for a moment a panic seized them all, which paralysed any exertions 
they might otherwise have made to detain that hideous form. 

But Mr. Marchdale was a man of mature years; he had seen much of life, both in this 
and in foreign lands; and he, although astonished to the extent of being frightened, 
was much more likely to recover sooner than his younger companions, which, 
indeed, he did, and acted promptly enough. 

"Don't rise, Henry," he cried. "Lie still." 

Almost at the moment he uttered these words, he fired at the figure, which then 
occupied the window, as if it were a gigantic figure set in a frame. 

The report was tremendous in that chamber, for the pistol was no toy weapon, but 
one made for actual service, and of sufficient length and bore of barrel to carry 
destruction along with the bullets that came from it. 

"If that has missed its aim," said Mr. Marchdale, "I'll never pull a trigger again." 

As he spoke he dashed forward, and made a clutch at the figure he felt convinced he 
had shot. 

The tall form turned upon him, and when he got a full view of the face, which he did 
at that moment, from the opportune circumstance of the lady returning at the instant 
with a light she had been to her own chamber to procure, even he, Marchdale, with 
all his courage, and that was great, and all his nervous energy, recoiled a step or two, 
and uttered the exclamation of, "Great God!" 

That face was one never to be forgotten. It was hideously flushed with colour！the 
colour of fresh blood; the eyes had a savage and remarkable lustre; whereas, before, 
they had looked like polished tin！they now wore a ten times brighter aspect, and 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
004.png
flashes of light seemed to dart from them. The mouth was open, as if, from the 
natural formation of the countenance, the lips receded much from the large canine 
looking teeth. 

A strange howling noise came from the throat of this monstrous figure, and it seemed 
upon the point of rushing upon Mr. Marchdale. Suddenly, then, as if some impulse 
had seized upon it, it uttered a wild and terrible shrieking kind of laugh; and then 
turning, dashed through the window, and in one instant disappeared from before the 
eyes of those who felt nearly annihilated by its fearful presence. 

"God help us!" ejaculated Henry. 

Mr. Marchdale drew a long breath, and then, giving a stamp on the floor, as if to 
recover himself from the state of agitation into which even he was thrown, he cried,！ 

"Be it what or who it may, I'll follow it" 

"No！no！do not," cried the lady. 

"I must, I will. Let who will come with me！I follow that dreadful form." 

As he spoke, he took the road it took, and dashed through the window into the 
balcony. 

"And we, too, George," exclaimed Henry; "we will follow Mr. Marchdale. This 
dreadful affair concerns us more nearly than it does him." 

The lady who was the mother of these young men, and of the beautiful girl who had 
been so awfully visited, screamed aloud, and implored of them to stay. But the voice 
of Mr. Marchdale was heard exclaiming aloud,！ 

"I see it！I see it; it makes for the wall." 

They hesitated no longer, but at once rushed into the balcony, and from thence 
dropped into the garden. 

The mother approached the bed-side of the insensible, perhaps the murdered girl; 
she saw her, to all appearance, weltering in blood, and, overcome by her emotions, 
she fainted on the floor of the room. 

When the two young men reached the garden, they found it much lighter than might 
have been fairly expected; for not only was the morning rapidly approaching, but the 
mill was still burning, and those mingled lights made almost every object plainly 
visible, except when deep shadows were thrown from some gigantic trees that had 
stood for centuries in that sweetly wooded spot. They heard the voice of Mr. 
Marchdale, as he cried,！ 

"There！there！towards the wall. There！there！God! how it bounds along." 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
004.png
The young men hastily dashed through a thicket in the direction from whence his 
voice sounded, and then they found him looking wild and terrified, and with 
something in his hand which looked like a portion of clothing. 

"Which way, which way?" they both cried in a breath. 

He leant heavily on the arm of George, as he pointed along a vista of trees, and said 
in a low voice,！ 

"God help us all. It is not human. Look there！look there！do you not see it?" 

They looked in the direction he indicated. At the end of this vista was the wall of the 
garden. At that point it was full twelve feet in height, and as they looked, they saw the 
hideous, monstrous form they had traced from the chamber of their sister, making 
frantic efforts to clear the obstacle. 

Then they saw it bound from the ground to the top of the wall, which it very nearly 
reached, and then each time it fell back again into the garden with such a dull, heavy 
sound, that the earth seemed to shake again with the concussion. They trembled！
well indeed they might, and for some minutes they watched the figure making its 
fruitless efforts to leave the place. 

"What！what is it?" whispered Henry, in hoarse accents. "God, what can it possibly 
be?" 

"I know not," replied Mr. Marchdale. "I did seize it. It was cold and clammy like a 
corpse. It cannot be human." 

"Not human?" 

"Look at it now. It will surely escape now." 

"No, no！we will not be terrified thus！there is Heaven above us. Come on, and, for 
dear Flora's sake, let us make an effort yet to seize this bold intruder." 

"Take this pistol," said Marchdale. "It is the fellow of the one I fired. Try its efficacy." 

"He will be gone," exclaimed Henry, as at this moment, after many repeated attempts 
and fearful falls, the figure reached the top of the wall, and then hung by its long 
arms a moment or two, previous to dragging itself completely up. 

The idea of the appearance, be it what it might, entirely escaping, seemed to nerve 
again Mr. Marchdale, and he, as well as the two young men, ran forward towards the 
wall. They got so close to the figure before it sprang down on the outer side of the 
wall, that to miss killing it with the bullet from the pistol was a matter of utter 
impossibility, unless wilfully. 

Henry had the weapon, and he pointed it full at the tall form with a steady aim. He 
pulled the trigger！the explosion followed, and that the bullet did its office there 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
004.png
could be no manner of doubt, for the figure gave a howling shriek, and fell headlong 
from the wall on the outside. 

"I have shot him," cried Henry, "I have shot him." 

 ---



Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
004.png
007.png
CHAPTER III. 

THE DISAPPEARANCE OF THE BODY.！FLORA'S 
RECOVERY AND MADNESS.！THE OFFER OF 
ASSISTANCE FROM SIR FRANCIS VARNEY. 

 

 

"He is human!" cried Henry; "I have surely killed him." 

"It would seem so," said Mr. Marchdale. "Let us now hurry round to the outside of 
the wall, and see where he lies." 

This was at once agreed to, and the whole three of them made what expedition they 
could towards a gate which led into a paddock, across which they hurried, and soon 
found themselves clear of the garden wall, so that they could make way towards 
where they fully expected to find the body of him who had worn so unearthly an 
aspect, but who it would be an excessive relief to find was human. 

So hurried was the progress they made, that it was scarcely possible to exchange 
many words as they went; a kind of breathless anxiety was upon them, and in the 
speed they disregarded every obstacle, which would, at any other time, have probably 
prevented them from taking the direct road they sought. 

It was difficult on the outside of the wall to say exactly which was the precise spot 
which it might be supposed the body had fallen on; but, by following the wall in its 
entire length, surely they would come upon it. 

They did so; but, to their surprise, they got from its commencement to its further 
extremity without finding any dead body, or even any symptoms of one having lain 
there. 

At some parts close to the wall there grew a kind of heath, and, consequently, the 
traces of blood would be lost among it, if it so happened that at the precise spot at 
which the strange being had seemed to topple over, such vegetation had existed. This 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
004.png
007.png
was to be ascertained; but now, after traversing the whole length of the wall twice, 
they came to a halt, and looked wonderingly in each other's faces. 

"There is nothing here," said Harry. 

"Nothing," added his brother. 

"It could not have been a delusion," at length said Mr. Marchdale, with a shudder. 

"A delusion?" exclaimed the brother! "That is not possible; we all saw it." 

"Then what terrible explanation can we give?" 

"By heavens! I know not," exclaimed Henry. "This adventure surpasses all belief, and 
but for the great interest we have in it, I should regard it with a world of curiosity." 

"It is too dreadful," said George; "for God's sake, Henry, let us return to ascertain if 
poor Flora is killed." 

"My senses," said Henry, "were all so much absorbed in gazing at that horrible form, 
that I never once looked towards her further than to see that she was, to appearance, 
dead. God help her! poor！poor, beautiful Flora. This is, indeed, a sad, sad fate for 
you to come to. Flora！Flora！" 

"Do not weep, Henry," said George. "Rather let us now hasten home, where we may 
find that tears are premature. She may yet be living and restored to us." 

"And," said Mr. Marchdale, "she may be able to give us some account of this dreadful 
visitation." 

"True！true," exclaimed Henry; "we will hasten home." 

They now turned their steps homeward, and as they went they much blamed 
themselves for all leaving home together, and with terror pictured what might occur 
in their absence to those who were now totally unprotected. 

"It was a rash impulse of us all to come in pursuit of this dreadful figure," remarked 
Mr. Marchdale; "but do not torment yourself, Henry. There may be no reason for 
your fears." 

At the pace they went, they very soon reached the ancient house, and when they came 
in sight of it, they saw lights flashing from the windows, and the shadows of faces 
moving to and fro, indicating that the whole household was up, and in a state of 
alarm. 

Henry, after some trouble, got the hall door opened by a terrified servant, who was 
trembling so much that she could scarcely hold the light she had with her. 

"Speak at once, Martha," said Henry. "Is Flora living?" 

"Yes; but！" 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
004.png
007.png
"Enough！enough! Thank God she lives; where is she now?" 

"In her own room, Master Henry. Oh, dear！oh, dear, what will become of us all?" 

Henry rushed up the staircase, followed by George and Mr. Marchdale, nor paused 
he once until he reached the room of his sister. 

"Mother," he said, before he crossed the threshold, "are you here?" 

"I am, my dear！I am. Come in, pray come in, and speak to poor Flora." 

"Come in, Mr. Marchdale," said Henry！"come in; we make no stranger of you." 

They all then entered the room. 

Several lights had been now brought into that antique chamber, and, in addition to 
the mother of the beautiful girl who had been so fearfully visited, there were two 
female domestics, who appeared to be in the greatest possible fright, for they could 
render no assistance whatever to anybody. 

The tears were streaming down the mother's face, and the moment she saw Mr. 
Marchdale, she clung to his arm, evidently unconscious of what she was about, and 
exclaimed,！ 

"Oh, what is this that has happened！what is this? Tell me, Marchdale! Robert 
Marchdale, you whom I have known even from my childhood, you will not deceive 
me. Tell me the meaning of all this?" 

"I cannot," he said, in a tone of much emotion. "As God is my judge, I am as much 
puzzled and amazed at the scene that has taken place here to-night as you can be." 

The mother wrung her hands and wept. 

"It was the storm that first awakened me," added Marchdale; "and then I heard a 
scream." 

The brothers tremblingly approached the bed. Flora was placed in a sitting, half-
reclining posture, propped up by pillows. She was quite insensible, and her face was 
fearfully pale; while that she breathed at all could be but very faintly seen. On some 
of her clothing, about the neck, were spots of blood, and she looked more like one 
who had suffered some long and grievous illness, than a young girl in the prime of 
life and in the most robust health, as she had been on the day previous to the strange 
scene we have recorded. 

"Does she sleep?" said Henry, as a tear fell from his eyes upon her pallid cheek. 

"No," replied Mr. Marchdale. "This is a swoon, from which we must recover her." 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
004.png
007.png
009.png
Active measures were now adopted to restore the languid circulation, and, after 
persevering in them for some time, they had the satisfaction of seeing her open her 
eyes. 

Her first act upon consciousness returning, however, was to utter a loud shriek, and 
it was not until Henry implored her to look around her, and see that she was 
surrounded by none but friendly faces, that she would venture again to open her 
eyes, and look timidly from one to the other. Then she shuddered, and burst into 
tears as she said,！ 

"Oh, Heaven, have mercy upon me！Heaven, have mercy upon me, and save me from 
that dreadful form." 

"There is no one here, Flora," said Mr. Marchdale, "but those who love you, and who, 
in defence of you, if needs were would lay down their lives." 

"Oh, God! Oh, God!" 

"You have been terrified. But tell us distinctly what has happened? You are quite safe 
now." 

 

She trembled so violently that Mr. Marchdale recommended that some stimulant 
should be given to her, and she was persuaded, although not without considerable 
difficulty, to swallow a small portion of some wine from a cup. There could be no 
doubt but that the stimulating effect of the wine was beneficial, for a slight accession 
of colour visited her cheeks, and she spoke in a firmer tone as she said,！ 

"Do not leave me. Oh, do not leave me, any of you. I shall die if left alone now. Oh, 
save me！save me. That horrible form! That fearful face!" 

"Tell us how it happened, dear Flora?" said Henry. 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
004.png
007.png
009.png
"Or would you rather endeavour to get some sleep first?" suggested Mr. Marchdale. 

"No！no！no," she said, "I do not think I shall ever sleep again." 

"Say not so; you will be more composed in a few hours, and then you can tell us what 
has occurred." 

"I will tell you now. I will tell you now." 

She placed her hands over her face for a moment, as if to collect her scattered, 
thoughts, and then she added,！ 

"I was awakened by the storm, and I saw that terrible apparition at the window. I 
think I screamed, but I could not fly. Oh, God! I could not fly. It came！it seized me 
by the hair. I know no more. I know no more." 

She passed her hand across her neck several times, and Mr. Marchdale said, in an 
anxious voice,！ 

"You seem, Flora, to have hurt your neck！there is a wound." 

"A wound!" said the mother, and she brought a light close to the bed, where all saw 
on the side of Flora's neck a small punctured wound; or, rather two, for there was one 
a little distance from the other. 

It was from these wounds the blood had come which was observable upon her night 
clothing. 

"How came these wounds?" said Henry. 

"I do not know," she replied. "I feel very faint and weak, as if I had almost bled to 
death." 

"You cannot have done so, dear Flora, for there are not above half-a-dozen spots of 
blood to be seen at all." 

Mr. Marchdale leaned against the carved head of the bed for support, and he uttered 
a deep groan. All eyes were turned upon him, and Henry said, in a voice of the most 
anxious inquiry,！ 

"You have something to say, Mr. Marchdale, which will throw some light upon this 
affair." 

"No, no, no, nothing!" cried Mr. Marchdale, rousing himself at once from the 
appearance of depression that had come over him. "I have nothing to say, but that I 
think Flora had better get some sleep if she can." 

"No sleep-no sleep for me," again screamed Flora. "Dare I be alone to sleep?" 

"But you shall not be alone, dear Flora," said Henry. "I will sit by your bedside and 
watch you." 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
004.png
007.png
009.png
She took his hand in both hers, and while the tears chased each other down her 
cheeks, she said,！ 

"Promise me, Henry, by all your hopes of Heaven, you will not leave me." 

"I promise!" 

She gently laid herself down, with a deep sigh, and closed her eyes. 

"She is weak, and will sleep long," said Mr. Marchdale. 

"You sigh," said Henry. "Some fearful thoughts, I feel certain, oppress your heart." 

"Hush-hush!" said Mr. Marchdale, as he pointed to Flora. "Hush! not here！not 
here." 

"I understand," said Henry. 

"Let her sleep." 

There was a silence of some few minutes duration. Flora had dropped into a deep 
slumber. That silence was first broken by George, who said,！ 

"Mr. Marchdale, look at that portrait." 

He pointed to the portrait in the frame to which we have alluded, and the moment 
Marchdale looked at it he sunk into a chair as he exclaimed,！ 

"Gracious Heaven, how like!" 

"It is！it is," said Henry. "Those eyes！" 

"And see the contour of the countenance, and the strange shape of the mouth." 

"Exact！exact." 

"That picture shall be moved from here. The sight of it is at once sufficient to awaken 
all her former terrors in poor Flora's brain if she should chance to awaken and cast 
her eyes suddenly upon it." 

"And is it so like him who came here?" said the mother. 

"It is the very man himself," said Mr. Marchdale. "I have not been in this house long 
enough to ask any of you whose portrait that may be?" 

"It is," said Henry, "the portrait of Sir Runnagate Bannerworth, an ancestor of ours, 
who first, by his vices, gave the great blow to the family prosperity." 

"Indeed. How long ago?" 

"About ninety years." 

"Ninety years. 'Tis a long while！ninety years." 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
004.png
007.png
009.png
"You muse upon it." 

"No, no. I do wish, and yet I dread！" 

"What?" 

"To say something to you all. But not here！not here. We will hold a consultation on 
this matter to-morrow. Not now！not now." 

"The daylight is coming quickly on," said Henry; "I shall keep my sacred promise of 
not moving from this room until Flora awakens; but there can be no occasion for the 
detention of any of you. One is sufficient here. Go all of you, and endeavour to 
procure what rest you can." 

"I will fetch you my powder-flask and bullets," said Mr. Marchdale; "and you can, if 
you please, reload the pistols. In about two hours more it will be broad daylight." 

This arrangement was adopted. Henry did reload the pistols, and placed them on a 
table by the side of the bed, ready for immediate action, and then, as Flora was 
sleeping soundly, all left the room but himself. 

Mrs. Bannerworth was the last to do so. She would have remained, but for the 
earnest solicitation of Henry, that she would endeavour to get some sleep to make up 
for her broken night's repose, and she was indeed so broken down by her alarm on 
Flora's account, that she had not power to resist, but with tears flowing from her 
eyes, she sought her own chamber. 

And now the calmness of the night resumed its sway in that evil-fated mansion; and 
although no one really slept but Flora, all were still. Busy thought kept every one else 
wakeful. It was a mockery to lie down at all, and Henry, full of strange and painful 
feelings as he was, preferred his present position to the anxiety and apprehension on 
Flora's account which he knew he should feel if she were not within the sphere of his 
own observation, and she slept as soundly as some gentle infant tired of its playmates 
and its sports. 

 ---


 

 

 

 


Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif
001.png
004.png
007.png
009.png
Description: Description: Description: Description: A:\PDF\PDFBooksWorld.gif 


 

 

 

 

 ---


End of Book Preview 

We hope you enjoyed reading this book. This is only preview of the book with limited 
chapters available for reading. To download complete book, become a registered 
member of PDFBooksWorld and access our eBooks library with unlimited download 
of high quality PDF eBooks. Do share & link to our website through social networks, 
blogs and websites. 

 

 ---


 

 

 


